docs/source/reference/api/client.rst, before:

Client
======

Source/Sink framework for development and QA purposes. You can send frames to the module and receive results with this framework.

Source usage example:

.. code-block:: python

    import time
    from savant_rs import init_jaeger_tracer
    from savant.client import JaegerLogProvider, JpegSource, SourceBuilder

    # Initialize Jaeger tracer to send metrics and logs to Jaeger.
    # Note: the Jaeger tracer also should be configured in the module.
    init_jaeger_tracer('savant-client', 'localhost:6831')

    # Build the source
    source = (
        SourceBuilder()
        .with_log_provider(JaegerLogProvider('http://localhost:16686'))
        .with_socket('pub+connect:ipc:///tmp/zmq-sockets/input-video.ipc')
        .build()
    )

    # Send a JPEG image from a file to the module
    result = source(JpegSource('cam-1', 'data/AVG-TownCentre.jpeg'))
    print(result.status)
    time.sleep(1)  # Wait for the module to process the frame
    result.logs().pretty_print()

Sink usage example:

.. code-block:: python

    from savant.client import JaegerLogProvider, SinkBuilder

    # Build the sink
    sink = (
        SinkBuilder()
        .with_socket('sub+connect:ipc:///tmp/zmq-sockets/output-video.ipc')
        .with_idle_timeout(60)
        .with_log_provider(JaegerLogProvider('http://localhost:16686'))
        .build()
    )

    # Receive results from the module and print them
    for result in sink:
        print(result.frame_meta)
        result.logs().pretty_print()

.. currentmodule:: savant.client

Builders
--------

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated
    :nosignatures:
    :template: autosummary/class.rst

    SourceBuilder
    SinkBuilder

Frame sources
-------------

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated
    :nosignatures:
    :template: autosummary/class.rst

    FrameSource
    JpegSource

Log providers
-------------

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated
    :nosignatures:
    :template: autosummary/class.rst

    LogProvider
    JaegerLogProvider

Results
-------

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated
    :nosignatures:
    :template: autosummary/class.rst

    runner.source.SourceResult
    runner.sink.SinkResult

Runners
-------

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated
    :nosignatures:
    :template: autosummary/class.rst

    runner.source.SourceRunner
    runner.sink.SinkRunner

Commit message:

Expose Savant health status to HTTP (#397)
* #395 implement HTTP healthcheck server

* #395 add interval and timeout for healthchecks in savant.client

* Update savant/client/builder/sink.py

Co-authored-by: Nikolay Bogoslovskiy <bogoslovskii@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Nikolay Bogoslovskiy <bogoslovskii@gmail.com>

docs/source/reference/api/client.rst, after:

Client
======

Source/Sink framework for development and QA purposes. You can send frames to the module and receive results with this framework.

Source usage example:

.. code-block:: python

    import time
    from savant_rs import init_jaeger_tracer
    from savant.client import JaegerLogProvider, JpegSource, SourceBuilder

    # Initialize Jaeger tracer to send metrics and logs to Jaeger.
    # Note: the Jaeger tracer also should be configured in the module.
    init_jaeger_tracer('savant-client', 'localhost:6831')

    # Build the source
    source = (
        SourceBuilder()
        .with_log_provider(JaegerLogProvider('http://localhost:16686'))
        .with_socket('pub+connect:ipc:///tmp/zmq-sockets/input-video.ipc')
        # Note: healthcheck port should be configured in the module.
        .with_module_health_check_url('http://172.17.0.1:8888/healthcheck')
        .build()
    )

    # Send a JPEG image from a file to the module
    result = source(JpegSource('cam-1', 'data/AVG-TownCentre.jpeg'))
    print(result.status)
    time.sleep(1)  # Wait for the module to process the frame
    result.logs().pretty_print()

Sink usage example:

.. code-block:: python

    from savant.client import JaegerLogProvider, SinkBuilder

    # Build the sink
    sink = (
        SinkBuilder()
        .with_socket('sub+connect:ipc:///tmp/zmq-sockets/output-video.ipc')
        .with_idle_timeout(60)
        .with_log_provider(JaegerLogProvider('http://localhost:16686'))
        # Note: healthcheck port should be configured in the module.
        .with_module_health_check_url('http://172.17.0.1:8888/healthcheck')
        .build()
    )

    # Receive results from the module and print them
    for result in sink:
        print(result.frame_meta)
        result.logs().pretty_print()

.. currentmodule:: savant.client

Builders
--------

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated
    :nosignatures:
    :template: autosummary/class.rst

    SourceBuilder
    SinkBuilder

Frame sources
-------------

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated
    :nosignatures:
    :template: autosummary/class.rst

    FrameSource
    JpegSource

Log providers
-------------

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated
    :nosignatures:
    :template: autosummary/class.rst

    LogProvider
    JaegerLogProvider

Results
-------

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated
    :nosignatures:
    :template: autosummary/class.rst

    runner.source.SourceResult
    runner.sink.SinkResult

Runners
-------

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated
    :nosignatures:
    :template: autosummary/class.rst

    runner.source.SourceRunner
    runner.sink.SinkRunner
