samples/auxiliary_streams/README.md, before:

# Auxiliary Streams

**Note**: This sample is not supported on Jetson.

A pipeline demonstrating the use of Auxiliary Streams in Savant. The pipeline contains element, [Multiple Resolutions](multiple_resolutions.py). It scales the frame to multiple resolution and sends the frames to the auxiliary streams.

## Prerequisites

```bash
git clone https://github.com/insight-platform/Savant.git
cd Savant
git lfs pull
./utils/check-environment-compatible
```

**Note**: Ubuntu 22.04 runtime configuration [guide](https://insight-platform.github.io/Savant/develop/getting_started/0_configure_prod_env.html) helps to configure the runtime to run Savant pipelines.

## Run Demo

```bash
# you are expected to be in Savant/ directory

# if x86
docker compose -f samples/auxiliary_streams/docker-compose.x86.yml up

# open 'rtsp://127.0.0.1:554/stream/video-360p', 'rtsp://127.0.0.1:554/stream/video-480p',
# 'rtsp://127.0.0.1:554/stream/video-720p' in your player
# or visit 'http://127.0.0.1:554/stream/video-360p', 'http://127.0.0.1:554/stream/video-480p', 
# 'http://127.0.0.1:554/stream/video-720p' (LL-HLS)

# Ctrl+C to stop running the compose bundle
```

Commit message:

Support auxiliary stream output for Jetson (#765)
* #760 add nvidia-l4t-multimedia lib to builder stage

* Revert "Fix building docker for Jetson (#763)"

This reverts commit 7d97102a6dc289f65c0f107894d0e63625986917.

* #760 add l4t compose file for auxiliary stream sample

* #760 check encoders used in auxiliary streams

* #760 use software encoder for l4t sample

* #760 allow to create auxiliary stream in pyfunc for jetson

* #760 remove 720p video from AO-sink

* #760 add JPEG support for auxiliary streams

* Revert "#760 remove 720p video from AO-sink"

This reverts commit b5df2a0107e7ed049fc2f6840277f8966b4ff868.

* #760 update docs for sample

samples/auxiliary_streams/README.md, after:

# Auxiliary Streams

A pipeline demonstrating the use of Auxiliary Streams in Savant. The pipeline contains element, [Multiple Resolutions](multiple_resolutions.py). It scales the frame to multiple resolution and sends the frames to the auxiliary streams.

## Prerequisites

```bash
git clone https://github.com/insight-platform/Savant.git
cd Savant
git lfs pull
./utils/check-environment-compatible
```

**Note**: Ubuntu 22.04 runtime configuration [guide](https://insight-platform.github.io/Savant/develop/getting_started/0_configure_prod_env.html) helps to configure the runtime to run Savant pipelines.

## Run Demo

```bash
# you are expected to be in Savant/ directory

# if x86
docker compose -f samples/auxiliary_streams/docker-compose.x86.yml up

# if Jetson
docker compose -f samples/buffer_adapter/docker-compose.l4t.yml up

# open 'rtsp://127.0.0.1:554/stream/video-360p', 'rtsp://127.0.0.1:554/stream/video-480p',
# 'rtsp://127.0.0.1:554/stream/video-720p' in your player
# or visit 'http://127.0.0.1:554/stream/video-360p', 'http://127.0.0.1:554/stream/video-480p', 
# 'http://127.0.0.1:554/stream/video-720p' (LL-HLS)

# All the streams on AO-sink are 1280x720 for simplicity of deployment.
# You can see the different quality of the streams since AO-sink upscales them to 1280x720.

# Ctrl+C to stop running the compose bundle
```
