samples/peoplenet_detector/README.md, before:

# People detection, tracking and face blurring (PeopleNet, Nvidia Tracker, OpenCV CUDA)

A simple pipeline that uses standard [Nvidia PeopleNet](https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/teams/tao/models/peoplenet) model to detect persons and their faces in the video. The faces are matched versus bodies and blurred with the integrated OpenCV CUDA functionality. There is also a simple unreliable tracker that helps reduce flickering of boxes.

GPU-accelerated blurring made with OpenCV is a killer feature of this demonstration. It enables very fast and efficient face blurring without CPU utilization.

The **Green** Icon represents how many people with blurred faces in the scene.
The **Blue** Icon represents how many people with blurred faces in the scene.

Preview:

![](assets/peoplenet-blur-demo-loop.webp)

Features:

![demo-0 2 0-dia](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15047882/229354155-f37ad24b-c0bd-4249-ba83-a53b3c1e053b.png)

YouTube Video:

[![Watch the video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/YCvT3XbiSik/default.jpg)](https://youtu.be/YCvT3XbiSik)

A step-by-step [tutorial](https://blog.savant-ai.io/meet-savant-a-new-high-performance-python-video-analytics-framework-for-nvidia-hardware-22cc830ead4d?source=friends_link&sk=c7169b378b31451ab8de3d882c22a774).

Tested on platforms:

- Xavier NX, Xavier AGX;
- Nvidia Ampere.

Demonstrated operational modes:

- real-time processing: RTSP streams (multiple sources at once);
- capacity processing: directory of files (FPS).

Demonstrated adapters:
- RTSP source adapter;
- video file source adapter;
- Always-ON RTSP sink adapter;
- Video/Metadata sink adapter.


**Note**: Ubuntu 22.04 runtime configuration [guide](../../docs/runtime-configuration.md) helps to configure the runtime to run Savant pipelines.

Run the demo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/insight-platform/Savant.git
cd Savant/samples/peoplenet_detector
git lfs pull

# if x86
../../utils/check-environment-compatible && docker compose -f docker-compose.x86.yml up

# if Jetson
../../utils/check-environment-compatible && docker compose -f docker-compose.l4t.yml up

# open 'rtsp://127.0.0.1:554/stream' in your player
# or visit 'http://127.0.0.1:888/stream/' (LL-HLS)

# Ctrl+C to stop running the compose bundle

# to get back to project root
cd ../..
```

## Performance Measurement

Download the video file to your local folder. For example, create a data folder and download the video into it (all commands must be executed from the root directory of the project Savant)

```bash
# you are expected to be in Savant/ directory

mkdir -p data && curl -o data/Free_City_Street_Footage.mp4 \
   https://eu-central-1.linodeobjects.com/savant-data/demo/Free_City_Street_Footage.mp4
```

Next, if you haven't run the sample in the default mode yet (following the instructions above), run

```bash
docker compose -f samples/peoplenet_detector/docker-compose.x86.yml build module
```

or

```bash
docker compose -f samples/peoplenet_detector/docker-compose.l4t.yml build module
```

to build the module docker image.

Now you are ready to run the performance benchmark with the following command:

```bash
./samples/peoplenet_detector/run_perf.sh
```

Commit message:

Refactoring. Add Build Engines section.

samples/peoplenet_detector/README.md, after:

# People detection, tracking and face blurring (PeopleNet, Nvidia Tracker, OpenCV CUDA)

A simple pipeline that uses standard [Nvidia PeopleNet](https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/teams/tao/models/peoplenet) model to detect persons and their faces in the video. The faces are matched versus bodies and blurred with the integrated OpenCV CUDA functionality. There is also a simple unreliable tracker that helps reduce flickering of boxes.

GPU-accelerated blurring made with OpenCV is a killer feature of this demonstration. It enables very fast and efficient face blurring without CPU utilization.

The **Green** Icon represents how many people with blurred faces in the scene.
The **Blue** Icon represents how many people with blurred faces in the scene.

Preview:

![](assets/peoplenet-blur-demo-loop.webp)

Features:

![demo-0 2 0-dia](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15047882/229354155-f37ad24b-c0bd-4249-ba83-a53b3c1e053b.png)

YouTube Video:

[![Watch the video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/YCvT3XbiSik/default.jpg)](https://youtu.be/YCvT3XbiSik)

A step-by-step [tutorial](https://blog.savant-ai.io/meet-savant-a-new-high-performance-python-video-analytics-framework-for-nvidia-hardware-22cc830ead4d?source=friends_link&sk=c7169b378b31451ab8de3d882c22a774).

Tested on platforms:

- Xavier NX, Xavier AGX;
- Nvidia Ampere.

Demonstrated operational modes:

- real-time processing: RTSP streams (multiple sources at once);
- capacity processing: directory of files (FPS).

Demonstrated adapters:
- RTSP source adapter;
- video file source adapter;
- Always-ON RTSP sink adapter;
- Video/Metadata sink adapter.

## Prerequisites

```bash
git clone https://github.com/insight-platform/Savant.git
cd Savant
git lfs pull
./utils/check-environment-compatible
```

**Note**: Ubuntu 22.04 runtime configuration [guide](https://insight-platform.github.io/Savant/develop/getting_started/0_configure_prod_env.html) helps to configure the runtime to run Savant pipelines.

## Build Engines

The demo uses models that are compiled into TensorRT engines the first time the demo is run. This takes time. Optionally, you can prepare the engines before running the demo by using the command:

```bash
# you are expected to be in Savant/ directory

./scripts/run_module.py --build-engines samples/peoplenet_detector/module.yml
```

## Run Demo

```bash
# you are expected to be in Savant/ directory

# if x86
docker compose -f samples/peoplenet_detector/docker-compose.x86.yml up

# if Jetson
docker compose -f samples/peoplenet_detector/docker-compose.l4t.yml up

# open 'rtsp://127.0.0.1:554/stream' in your player
# or visit 'http://127.0.0.1:888/stream/' (LL-HLS)

# Ctrl+C to stop running the compose bundle
```

## Performance Measurement

Download the video file to the data folder. For example:

```bash
# you are expected to be in Savant/ directory

mkdir -p data && curl -o data/Free_City_Street_Footage.mp4 \
   https://eu-central-1.linodeobjects.com/savant-data/demo/Free_City_Street_Footage.mp4
```

Now you are ready to run the performance benchmark with the following command:

```bash
./samples/peoplenet_detector/run_perf.sh
```

**Note**: Change the value of the `DATA_LOCATION` variable in the `run_perf.sh` script if you changed the video.
