samples/animegan/README.md, before:

# AnimeGAN Demo

Use [AnimeGANv2](https://github.com/TachibanaYoshino/AnimeGANv2) to apply Hayao Miyazaki anime-like style to a video.

Preview:

![](assets/animegan-loop.webp)

Tested on platforms:

- Nvidia Turing, Ampere.

Demonstrated adapters:

- Multi-stream source adapter;
- Video/Metadata sink adapter.

Download sample video:

```bash
# you are expected to be in Savant/ directory

mkdir -p data
curl -o data/deepstream_sample_720p.mp4 https://eu-central-1.linodeobjects.com/savant-data/demo/deepstream_sample_720p.mp4
```

Run the demo:

```bash
# you are expected to be in Savant/ directory

./samples/animegan/run.sh
```

The script waits for the module to complete processing and removes containers afterwards. While waiting for the script to finish you can check current progress by reading container logs from a separate terminal:

```bash
docker logs -f animegan-source-1
# or
docker logs -f animegan-module-1
# or
docker logs -f animegan-video-sink-1
```

Result is written into `Savant/data/results/animegan_result_0`.

## Change input video

Input video is expected to be located in the `Savant/data` directory. File name can be set through `INPUT_FILENAME` environment variable

```bash
INPUT_FILENAME=input.mp4 ./samples/animegan/run.sh
```

## Prepare other weights

The sample uses [generator_Hayao_weight](https://github.com/TachibanaYoshino/AnimeGANv2/tree/master/checkpoint/generator_Hayao_weight) AnimeGANv2 checkpoint that was:

1. Converted to Pytorch with the help of [convert_weights.py](https://github.com/bryandlee/animegan2-pytorch/blob/main/convert_weights.py) script.
2. Exported to ONNX using standard Pytorch methods with (dynamic, 3, 720, 1280) inference dimensions.
3. Simplified using [onnx-simplifier](https://github.com/daquexian/onnx-simplifier)

Commit message:

Refactoring. Add Build Engines section.

samples/animegan/README.md, after:

# AnimeGAN Demo

Use [AnimeGANv2](https://github.com/TachibanaYoshino/AnimeGANv2) to apply Hayao Miyazaki anime-like style to a video.

Preview:

![](assets/animegan-loop.webp)

Tested on platforms:

- Nvidia Turing, Ampere.

Demonstrated adapters:

- Multi-stream source adapter;
- Video/Metadata sink adapter.

## Prerequisites

```bash
git clone https://github.com/insight-platform/Savant.git
cd Savant
git lfs pull
./utils/check-environment-compatible
```

**Note**: Ubuntu 22.04 runtime configuration [guide](https://insight-platform.github.io/Savant/develop/getting_started/0_configure_prod_env.html) helps to configure the runtime to run Savant pipelines.

## Download Sample Video

```bash
# you are expected to be in Savant/ directory

mkdir -p data
curl -o data/deepstream_sample_720p.mp4 https://eu-central-1.linodeobjects.com/savant-data/demo/deepstream_sample_720p.mp4
```

## Build Engines

The demo uses models that are compiled into TensorRT engines the first time the demo is run. This takes time. Optionally, you can prepare the engines before running the demo by using the command:

```bash
# you are expected to be in Savant/ directory

./scripts/run_module.py --build-engines samples/animegan/module.yml
```

## Run Demo

```bash
# you are expected to be in Savant/ directory

./samples/animegan/run.sh
```

The script waits for the module to complete processing and removes containers afterward. While waiting for the script to finish you can check current progress by reading container logs from a separate terminal:

```bash
docker logs -f animegan-source-1
# or
docker logs -f animegan-module-1
# or
docker logs -f animegan-video-sink-1
```

Result is written into `Savant/data/results/animegan_result_0`.

## Change Input Video

Input video is expected to be located in the `Savant/data` directory. File name can be set through `INPUT_FILENAME` environment variable

```bash
INPUT_FILENAME=input.mp4 ./samples/animegan/run.sh
```

## Prepare Other Weights

The sample uses [generator_Hayao_weight](https://github.com/TachibanaYoshino/AnimeGANv2/tree/master/checkpoint/generator_Hayao_weight) AnimeGANv2 checkpoint that was:

1. Converted to Pytorch with the help of [convert_weights.py](https://github.com/bryandlee/animegan2-pytorch/blob/main/convert_weights.py) script.
2. Exported to ONNX using standard Pytorch methods with (dynamic, 3, 720, 1280) inference dimensions.
3. Simplified using [onnx-simplifier](https://github.com/daquexian/onnx-simplifier)
