samples/super_resolution/README.md, before:

# Super Resolution

The pipeline shows the use of super-resolution neural networks to improve the quality and resolution of the input video. 

We prepared ONNX versions (using standard `torch.onnx.export`) of two lightweight NinaSR models ninasr_b0 and ninasr_b1 with different scales (x2/3/4) from the [TorchSR repository](https://github.com/Coloquinte/torchSR). The demo uses input video in 360p format and model ninasr_b0 with scale 3 to output video in 1080p format. The model and scale can be changed in the module configuration [file](module.yml).

The demo is prepared for use on dGPU.

Preview:

![](assets/shuffle_dance_360p_1080p.webp)


Tested on platforms:
- Nvidia Turing, Ampere. 

## Run the demo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/insight-platform/Savant.git
cd Savant/samples/super_resolution

../../utils/check-environment-compatible && docker compose -f docker-compose.x86.yml up

# open 'rtsp://127.0.0.1:554/stream' in your player
# or visit 'http://127.0.0.1:888/stream/' (LL-HLS)

# Ctrl+C to stop running the compose bundle
```

Commit message:

Refactoring. Add Build Engines section.

samples/super_resolution/README.md, after:

# Super Resolution

The pipeline shows the use of super-resolution neural networks to improve the quality and resolution of the input video. 

We prepared ONNX versions (using standard `torch.onnx.export`) of two lightweight NinaSR models ninasr_b0 and ninasr_b1 with different scales (x2/3/4) from the [TorchSR repository](https://github.com/Coloquinte/torchSR). The demo uses input video in 360p format and model ninasr_b0 with scale 3 to output video in 1080p format. The model and scale can be changed in the module configuration [file](module.yml).

The demo is prepared for use on dGPU.

Preview:

![](assets/shuffle_dance_360p_1080p.webp)

Tested on platforms:
- Nvidia Turing, Ampere. 

## Prerequisites

```bash
git clone https://github.com/insight-platform/Savant.git
cd Savant
git lfs pull
./utils/check-environment-compatible
```

**Note**: Ubuntu 22.04 runtime configuration [guide](https://insight-platform.github.io/Savant/develop/getting_started/0_configure_prod_env.html) helps to configure the runtime to run Savant pipelines.

## Build Engines

The demo uses models that are compiled into TensorRT engines the first time the demo is run. This takes time. Optionally, you can prepare the engines before running the demo by using the command:

```bash
# you are expected to be in Savant/ directory

./scripts/run_module.py --build-engines samples/super_resolution/module.yml
```

## Run Demo

```bash
# you are expected to be in Savant/ directory

docker compose -f samples/super_resolution/docker-compose.x86.yml up

# open 'rtsp://127.0.0.1:554/stream' in your player
# or visit 'http://127.0.0.1:888/stream/' (LL-HLS)

# Ctrl+C to stop running the compose bundle
```
